Now that we have all of the HTML in place,
let's turn to our CSS, and
we're gonna start with laying this out
with our mobile dimension of the website.
So one of the things that I'm struck by
here as I start to work on this system
immediately is the following.
I have this mixed media and
Annie Roenkae listed right after that.
And if you notice there's
a big gap in between them and
they kind of look similar or
the font is slightly smaller.
But if we map this to a trend that we
see right now in the design industry,
often that the little text on the top that
mixed media will be displayed at a smaller
font and it will be all in uppercase.
And then after that we'll have Annie
Roenkae which will be in larger letters.
So let's fix our styling here so
it looks closer to that.
So we're gonna start here with artists H4.
And the way we can style
this is pretty simple.
We'll just say text, transform, uppercase.
And then we'll say our
font weight is normal.
And then finally our font
size will be 0.8 rem.
And that will get us to a tiny
uppercase font that is not bolded.
Remember, of course, it's bold by default,
all of the headings are coming
from your browser style sheet.
The gap in between mixed media in
Annie Roenkae is caused by margin,
and that margin happens both on the H4 and
on the H3.
All of the headings have some
default margin associated with it.
Be aware that when two margins
intersect inside of your style sheet,
they don't add together, they actually
collapse into a single margin.
This is a really important feature,
if you think about paragraphs, a series of
paragraphs, we don't wanna have a giant
double spacing between paragraphs.
We wanna have the same type
of spacing in between them.
So as two margins meet, they do collapse.
So here on my H4,
if I set the margin to 0,
we won't see anything collapse here at
all, it will look exactly the same.
But stuff has happened we've
actually turned off the margin.
The top margin here is coming
now from the bottom of the H2.
The margin that's
underneath of the text for
mixed media is coming
from the top of the H3.
So let's set that up as follows,
artists, H3.
We're gonna say margin top 0.3 ems,
we could set that to 0 if you wanted,
if you just set it to a straight
0 it looks a little bit tight.
So I've set it to 0.3 ems,
which gives us a little bit of
breathing room between those.
That's an hard decision, and
you can change that however you like.
Now, that we've got that in place,
let's focus on styling
the cards themselves and
the content inside of those cards.
So we will make the visual side
of this a little bit smaller.
Just for fun, we could start with Flexbox.
And so, we'll work with the article wrap,
a portion of our HTML,
remember that is the divs that wraps
around all of the articles that and
we'll say display we're working with here.
And so we'll set that up, article wrap.
Flex, we'll save flex flow because
of course, by default Flexbox
will very helpfully set that all up as
a series of columns inside of a row.
That's not what we wanted
a mobile dimension.
So we'll say our flex flow
is a column wrap, and
then the gap will be 1 rem in
between each one of those columns.
So that's just sets everything up
going here horizontally down the page.
Met, so far so good.
But wouldn't it be more interesting
if we made this a little bit better?
Part of the problem with
having these giant images,
is that it makes the page very long for
scrolling here on mobile.
So wouldn't it be more fun if we had
a smaller image with a text next to it?
That would be kinda cool looking, and
it wouldn't be all that hard
to do when we leverage grid.
So we have a basic layout here for
our mobile layout,
we have exactly what you would
expect in a mobile dimension.
We have our HTML and
our images all stacked on top
of each other really nicely.
The images look great, they're nice and
big, they're easy to see.
But it does make for
a long scrolling web page.
Wouldn't it be nice if instead we
had a two column layout on mobile,
and we could have an image
taking up one of those columns.
And next to it,
we could have all of the text.
That may not look possible with what
we have here, but thanks to grid,
this becomes a really easy layout to do.
So let's set that up.
So now, the articles will wind
up being our containers for
all of the elements inside of it.
So if we just take a quick peek
inside of one of our articles here,
you see that we have an H4 and
H5, an image and
two paragraphs that winds up being five
elements that are children of the article.
So in our layout here as we plan it,
we'll set this up as our article wrap,
Article, And then we're going
to tell it to display as grid.
And we're going to give it two columns,
grid template columns of 1fr, 1fr.
And then five rows, grid template rows,
repeat, parentheses, 5,auto.
So what will happen here is
that by default grid is going
to assign each element inside of the card,
its own row.
So there we go, we have one element here,
each inside of this card,
and we've called for two columns.
So what grid has done is it put
the heading in one, the image,
the other the text and the other and
the visit the website and the other.
So we're just sort of alternating
as we go on down the page here.
We need to clean that up
a little bit as well.
So let's add to this more styles.
ArticleWrap, article *.
Remember * is the universal selector, so
we're saying that for all of the elements
inside of an article, inside of our
class of articlewrap do the following.
We're going to say we wanna put
everything in grid column 2/3.
So we're gonna put everything
over in the second column.
See how the page jumps, everything goes
over to the second column, which is great.
And I'm also gonna turn off the margin
on the top, margin top of 0.
That way things will tighten up
in their spacing a little bit,
which you'll see why
here in just a moment.
Then we'll make an exception
to this rule for our images.
So for articlewrap, Image,
article image.
Then we're going to say
we want a grid column,
Of 1/2, so we want the images over on
the left hand side, so there it is.
And it's good to put it in
the row that most closely matches
to the just the regular flow of the HTM.
So it sort of looks like it's in
the middle and the spacing is all wonky.
The way we fix that is by
saying then our grid row,
Will be 1/6.
And what that will do is have our
image span over all five of our rows.
And the content here now will snap
up together and compact itself very,
very nicely on the right hand side,
which is totally awesome and amazing.
We probably need a little bit more gap
here in between our article wraps and
our columns.
So let's add that it's looking
a little bit crowded over there.
So I'm gonna say a gap here in
my article wrap article of 0 and
then 1 rem,.And that'll put some space
there in between our image and the text.
So that's pretty cool,
that gives us the image next to the text.
The HTML order is what it is.
And we have a lovely layout here for
mobile dimensions.
It starts to get a little
bit big as we get larger.
So let's deal with that by
writing some more media queries.
So here at media with a min width,
Of 650 pixels, In our article wrap.
We're gonna say once again, display grid.
This overrides the earlier declaration
we had for flexes and Flexbox.
Now, we're gonna tell it
to display as grid, and
then we can say our grid template,
Columns,
Are repeat to comma, and then of course,
we can use our friend min max,
Min max, 10px,1fr.
So if you're not familiar with min max,
this is something you can
include inside of CSS Grid.
This is designed to make sure that your
grid cells are going to look good and
they don't get to entirely small.
It is possible that your
grid cells shrink down so
small that that they just look terrible.
So this is a technique that Chris Croyer
has described on his CSS tricks website.
And so this is something that you can
incorporate anywhere along the way.
I haven't done so
in the grid course to this point,
mostly because I wanted you to
get familiar with the notation.
This is something else you can add on as
a layer of security to make sure your
cells don't get too small.
So if we widen this page,
now we're gonna wind up with two columns.
And you'll see here that we have a very
lovely layout here at tablet dimensions.
But we can now do one additional level of
craziness here when we get to desktop and
completely change the look
of the site again.
So here, so we'll say @media and minwidth,
you probably wanna say something
like 1000 pixels on your end.
I'm gonna say something
like 800 pixels here,
because I have a smaller screen and
a limited size that I'm working with.
And so here let's change up our
display again with article wrap.
And I'm going to save my grid,
template columns are gonna be repeat 4,
and
then minmax inside of this 10px,1fr.
So now I'm telling, grids has set
us up with four columns instead.
So that's the way it looks right now,
those pictures are a little bit small.
So let's clean that up a little bit.
When we go to our articlewrap article.
Now, we'll say our grid template columns.
So remember this is inside of the article,
previously we've had two columns,
one with the image,
one with everything else.
Now, I'm gonna change that to simply
one column, 1fr, that's all I want.
You can do a minmax on that too,
if you want.
Minmax.
Maybe it's a minimum of 100px,1fr,
something like that.
It doesn't always have to be 10 pixels.
It could also be ems or rems, or
percents or viewpoint widths or
whatever makes sense.
I just happen to be using pixels here.
Okay, then we need to
specify our rows again.
So our grid template rows,
repeat, 5,auto, whoops.
,auto.
So that's how that's looking.
And we can set up our gap with that.
01.
And then now the last part of this is
to you rearrange what we have here and
get the image back into
the same location as our text.
So we can set that up as follows.
We'll say our articlewrap,
Article *, in other words for
all of the elements we want them
to occupy our grid column of 1/2.
Okay, make sure that they all occupy
the same column, that's a good start.
And then for the image itself,
if you like it this way with
the image at the top,
you can absolutely do that.
Or you could rearrange this,
article, Article image.
Here, we might say something like our
grid column is definitely still 1/2.
Our grid row though, if you want it to
go back to its original location in
the source code, so after the headings,
we would just say auto.
And that will move the image to
where it would normally occur
in the source order right after
the headings as we had it before.
And we could also give that a bit
of margin on the bottom of 1 rem.
So we give it a little bit
of spacing here on the page.
So now, we have a wild and crazy layout
here where we've got four columns with
headings on the top and
images in the middle here at the desktop.
When we go to our tablet dimension,
we wind up with two main columns,
each of which with two
sorta separate columns.
The image on the side,
the text next to that.
And then when you narrow
this up even further,
we have two nice columns with the text
on one side and the image on the other.
So you have a just always big invisible,
very important when you're
talking about artists.
If you wanted to take this to the next
level, you could do something interesting
like giving background colors here on on
some of the cells, maybe not all of them.
You could do some styling with
the link to visit the websites,
maybe those turned into
some kind of button.
You could definitely do fun
things here with the fonts,
we worked with a single Arial font here,
it's pretty vanilla looking.
So if you added some more
interesting contrasting fonts,
you could wind up making this
look more interesting as well.
You could add some border radius or border
on the image itself to jazz that up a bit.
There's all kinds of things that you can
do with cards to take the layout that I've
just given you here to the next level and
make a really exciting looking web page.